# Mobile-Architect-Programming
CS-360 Mobile Architect &amp; Programming

## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
Potential users of my weight tracking application are personal trainers, bodybuilders, and dietitians. Personal trainers need an easy way to track their client’s weight and set a weight goal. Personal trainers can ask their client to step on a scale after each session to record their weight and would need the app to keep track of many different clients and their weights. Bodybuilders typically only care about one thing, which is building aesthetically pleasing muscle mass. Muscle weighs more than fat, so keeping track of a bodybuilder’s weight is an easy way to keep track of muscle mass gains. A bodybuilder would benefit if the app included an additional feature to track body measurements such as muscle circumferences. Dietitians need an easy way to keep track of their patients’ weights. It is important to keep track of patient weights so a dietitian can make the necessary adjustments to their patient’s meal plans as needed to reach the patient’s set weight goal. A personal trainer, bodybuilder, and dietitian would all benefit from the added ability for the app to keep track of progress photos, so the weight is not just a number and can easily be visualized. For all potential users, the app provides a convenient way to quickly log and keep track of their weight. Rather than carrying around a separate physical journal, the app gives the user one less thing to keep in their gym bag.

## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I kept the design clean and minimalistic. The app is most likely going to be used quickly right after standing on a scale to log their weight, so the user needs to be able to easily and quickly log their weight without having to navigate to multiple screens. The main screen's central feature is the user's current weight and a large "+" button at the bottom center of the screen to quickly and easily press with your thumb.

## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I started out drawing the layout of the app until I was satisfied, followed by coding the layout until it matched my design. After the design was complete, I started adding all of the features starting with two databases: one to store user account info, and another to store the weights. I feel like this workflow was excellent and can easily be applied to app development in the future to save time.

## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I ensured the code was functional by doing as many combinations of actions as I could think of. For example, I would add a weight, edit the weight, and delete the weight, listing all weights after each action to ensure the changes were taking place. I encountered some crashes when pressing the back button after viewing the user's profile without making any changes, so it was beneficial to perform these actions for bug testing purposes.

## Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The hardest part for me was coding the "list all weights" activity. I had to figure out how to generate a table on-the-fly using the weights data that was visually pleasing. First, I designed a test table in the layout file until I was pleased with its look. Then, I translated the XML into Java methods that generated a table that matched my table design with the weight data.

## In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I feel like writing the code that communicated with my SQLite databases (CRUD) particularly demonstrated my knowledge and skills of both programming and Android app development.
